# Course Outline

_Data structures_ are containers that organize and group data together in different ways. When you write code to solve a problem, there will always be data involved—and how you store or structure that data in the computer's memory can have a huge impact on what kinds of things you can do with it and how efficiently you can do those things.

This course will walk you through the basics of several data structures and provide opportunities to practice using those data structures to solve problems. While the practice will be in Python, the data structures that you will learn about are used across many languages and not specific to Python. This course will also discuss recursion, which is an important concept to understand when dealing with tree data structures, as they are often referred to as recursive data structures. We will walk you through the following topics.

**Arrays and Linked Lists -** These are both basic data structures, which are ordered collections of items. This means that as long as the collection is not empty there is a "first" item, and then a next item, and so on. This lesson will discuss the properties of arrays and linked lists as well as strings, which share many similarities to arrays and lists. After discussing the properties, this lesson will provide opportunities to practice using arrays and linked lists to solve problems.

**Stacks and Queues -** These data structures are often built using arrays or linked lists, but have different behavior about how items are added or removed. This creates efficiencies in certain situations and also helps to model real-life scenarios.

**Recursion -** Recursion is the ability to define a solution to a problem in terms of a smaller or simpler version of the same problem. In programming, it is used to describe a function or method that calls itself. This lesson will explain in more detail what recursion is and why it is important.

**Trees -** Unlike the previous data structures that had a linear order, with elements potentially having a next item or previous item, trees have a hierarchical structure. This means that all items will only have one previous item (unless they are the first), but can have zero or more "next" items. This lesson will discuss typical traversals and uses of trees.

**Maps and Hashing -** Maps are a way of connecting identifiers, or keys, with values. This lesson will discuss the concept of sets, and maps, and also the broader concept of hashing. Hashing is a way of transforming a value into a new value through some mathematical or algorithmic formula.
